---
title: Web Developer
company: California State University, Northridge
start: 2018-06-18
end: 2021-05-21
---

I led the development of multiple projects and managed/mentored a team of student developers. My main focuses were open source, software architecture, automation, code generation, and accessibility. I actively maintained PHP, Python, and React (TypeScript) libraries/tools that could be reused across multiple projects and departments. I also maintained Drupal and WordPress instances for the main campus and individual departments.

By collaborating with a colleague, we successfully introduced the concept of GitOps into our infrastructure team's workflow and have completely automated the deployment of resources using a CI/CD process powered by GitHub Actions. We also established guidelines and practices for the deployment of new applications to be possible through Docker and Kubernetes.

Alongside the Universal Design Center (UDC), I worked on making CSUN's web presence significantly more accessible and researching new patterns for building accessible components, such as "mega menus" and chat interfaces.

For my team of student developers, I had them contribute to and build production-level web applications. We used GitHub and a pretty standard git-flow workflow using pull requests and code reviews. Through our code review process, I gave my students feedback on how to improve their code and also have them review other full-time developers' code; giving them the opportunity to learn how to work on a team of developers.
